README.rst, before:

Notes
=====
Problems? Ask Fatma

`Cleaned Richa code <https://github.com/theislab/bartSeq>`_

Read structure
--------------
- trash
- 3nt protection CCA ()
- 8nt barcode (known from set)
- Linker (one for left bcs, one for right bcs)
- Primer + Rest of Amplicon

Interesting Statistics
----------------------
Make statistics: How many reads have a barcode, ...

from reads tagged with info:

- Barcode available?
- Trash before bc?
- Where bc?
- Concatamere? (bc[-bc-bc…]-linker-primer)
- Which nucleotides where bc should be?
- Amplicon maps to which gene?

Possible Problems
-----------------
- No Amplicons: Only bc and linker
- Amplicon quality bad at the end
- Trash at the beginning
- Barcodes can have mismatches

Test data
---------
#. Old good quality data (purified)
#. MiSeq (better quality) & NextSeq (maybe unpurified but both protocols)
#. Only NextSeq (important goal)

Everything up until NGS15 purified.

Good test data: NGS12 MiSeq, NGS15 NextSeq, NGS17 MiSeq!

NGS15 and NGS17
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

NGS15 NextSeq libraries:

- Library1: Single Cell Replicate 1 (NGS15_SC_Rep1)

- Library2: Single Cell Replicate 2 (NGS15_SC_Rep2)

  Biological replicate of Library 1 i.e. another library, so for MiSeq-NextSeq comparison we can ignore this, because we didn't analyze it on a MiSeq device

- Library3: Bulk RNA Titration Replicate 1 (NGS15_Bulk_Rep1)

- Library4: Bulk RNA Titration Replicate 2 (NGS15_Bulk_Rep2)

  These were the dilution series where we had 4-fold dilutions of bulk RNA samples

- Library5: Spike-in Titration Replicate 1 (NGS15_Titration_Rep1)

- Library6: Spike-in Titration Replicate 2 (NGS15_Titration_Rep2)

  These were the dilution series where we had 10-fold dilutions of RNAspike-ins

Lib 1 re-analyzed in MiSeq. Corresponding files:

NGS15 (NextSeq)

- NGS15_SC_Rep1_S1_R1_001.fastq.gz
- NGS15_SC_Rep1_S1_R2_001.fastq.gz

NGS17 (MiSeq)

- SC-Lib1_S1_L001_R1_001.fastq.gz
- SC-Lib1_S1_L001_R2_001.fastq.gz

Info in “NGS-15 Analysis Required Information.xlsx”. Overview:

- Cell Plates
- Bulk & Titration Plates


NGS experiments that used for the manuscript
--------------------------------------------

Genotyping:

- NGS4 - Lib3
- NGS7 - Lib2
- NGS8 - Lib1

Transcriptomics:

- NGS12 - Lib1 & Lib3
- NGS15 - Lib1 & Lib2
- NGS17

Commit message:

Updated readme with file structure

README.rst, after:

BARTSeq pipeline
================
This is a pipeline for BARTSeq implemented with Snakemake

The primer design code and an older version lives in `theislab/bartSeq <https://github.com/theislab/bartSeq>`_.

Entry point
-----------
The pipeline can be run via ``snakemake [-j 4] [-s …/bartseq/Snakefile] [-d …/mydata]``,
where ``-j`` specifies the number of threads,
and the other parameters default to ``./Snakefile`` and ``.``, respectively.

Within the data directory, the following structure is expected:

- ``in/``
  
  - ``reads/``
    
    - ``<libname>_R1_001.fastq.gz``
    - ``<libname>_R2_001.fastq.gz``
    - optionally additional libraries…
  
  - ``amplicons.fa`` or ``amplicons/<libname>.fa`` for all libraries
  - ``barcodes.fa`` or ``barcodes/<libname>.fa`` for all libraries

Read structure
--------------
- trash
- 3nt protection CCA ()
- 8nt barcode (known from set)
- Linker (one for left bcs, one for right bcs)
- Primer + Rest of Amplicon

Interesting Statistics
----------------------
Make statistics: How many reads have a barcode, ...

from reads tagged with info:

- Barcode available?
- Trash before bc?
- Where bc?
- Concatamere? (bc[-bc-bc…]-linker-primer)
- Which nucleotides where bc should be?
- Amplicon maps to which gene?

Possible Problems
-----------------
- No Amplicons: Only bc and linker
- Amplicon quality bad at the end
- Trash at the beginning
- Barcodes can have mismatches

Test data
---------
#. Old good quality data (purified)
#. MiSeq (better quality) & NextSeq (maybe unpurified but both protocols)
#. Only NextSeq (important goal)

Everything up until NGS15 purified.

Good test data: NGS12 MiSeq, NGS15 NextSeq, NGS17 MiSeq!

NGS15 and NGS17
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

NGS15 NextSeq libraries:

- Library1: Single Cell Replicate 1 (NGS15_SC_Rep1)

- Library2: Single Cell Replicate 2 (NGS15_SC_Rep2)

  Biological replicate of Library 1 i.e. another library, so for MiSeq-NextSeq comparison we can ignore this, because we didn't analyze it on a MiSeq device

- Library3: Bulk RNA Titration Replicate 1 (NGS15_Bulk_Rep1)

- Library4: Bulk RNA Titration Replicate 2 (NGS15_Bulk_Rep2)

  These were the dilution series where we had 4-fold dilutions of bulk RNA samples

- Library5: Spike-in Titration Replicate 1 (NGS15_Titration_Rep1)

- Library6: Spike-in Titration Replicate 2 (NGS15_Titration_Rep2)

  These were the dilution series where we had 10-fold dilutions of RNAspike-ins

Lib 1 re-analyzed in MiSeq. Corresponding files:

NGS15 (NextSeq)

- NGS15_SC_Rep1_S1_R1_001.fastq.gz
- NGS15_SC_Rep1_S1_R2_001.fastq.gz

NGS17 (MiSeq)

- SC-Lib1_S1_L001_R1_001.fastq.gz
- SC-Lib1_S1_L001_R2_001.fastq.gz

Info in “NGS-15 Analysis Required Information.xlsx”. Overview:

- Cell Plates
- Bulk & Titration Plates


NGS experiments that used for the manuscript
--------------------------------------------

Genotyping:

- NGS4 - Lib3
- NGS7 - Lib2
- NGS8 - Lib1

Transcriptomics:

- NGS12 - Lib1 & Lib3
- NGS15 - Lib1 & Lib2
- NGS17
